If you find yourself resisting your
negative emotions, this is going to be a
great video for you to watch. In this
coaching video, I work with a father who
thinks pushing down his anger is the
best thing to do for parenting. And we
find out that his emotional fluidity has
been there with him the whole time. I
have been
struggling the last couple of years with
since my my first daughter was born
with uh just resisting
feeling my negative emotions
and
uh it's it's really started coming to a
head in my life.
>> Resisting feeling your negative
emotions. You mean you're like not
allowing yourself to struggle?
>> Yeah. Anything that comes up that's
traditionally a negative emotion. I I
get frustrated more often. Um you know,
sad.
>> So, you're having more life changing.
>> Yes. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. I thought you meant you were
struggling to not let them be there, but
you're struggling because there's too
many of them. Apparently,
>> there's too many of them. And I
immediately clamp down on them now to to
not feel them. You know, I've I've heard
you say before uh how how strange it is
to to say internally, oh, this emotion
isn't logical. I shouldn't feel this
right now.
>> Yeah. But that's
>> I do that a lot. Yeah. And
>> so that was cool. You were talk, you
started off saying, "I've been
struggling recently." And what your face
did was you went, "I've been struggling
recently."
Like there was an immediate resistance
to the struggle.
>> Right?
>> So what what happens to your struggle
that's happening if you don't resist
right now? Don't don't think about it.
Actually feel the struggle and don't
resist and tell me what occurs.
>> Wait, you're resisting in a different
way. You just walked out of the back of
your body. Be fully in your body and
don't resist.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. So, this is struggle without
resistance.
>> Right.
>> What's the problem with that?
>> Good.
>> Yeah, it does. It's very alive.
>> Yeah. I felt the I felt the energy just
kind of spread through my whole body
instead of being locked up.
>> Yeah.
>> In the middle of my chest.
So, what's the key thing you're
resisting with this parenting fatherhood
thing? What's the key resistance?
Look at that. There goes your face
again.
>> The key resistance I think is
>> Don't care what you think.
>> Thanks, Joe. Mhm.
I think it's a it's a struggle with the
sadness and a and kind of an anger
around having so little
space.
>> Yeah.
How old is the little one?
>> Two and a half. And we just found out
we've got a a second one.
>> Oh, cool.
>> Which I'm genuinely excited about.
>> I know. But you'll also be resentful
eventually. Don't worry.
And I could feel that in trying to
selectively
mute my my anger and sadness that
>> when I heard the news, I didn't have
access to the excitement that I know
that I have in me.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And just add one last
like thing for the triage so to speak,
how much is your wife guilt tripping you
for not being around enough? Like how
much are you all in the We're both ex
We're both maxed out. So instead of like
figuring out how to work together more
efficiently, we are blaming each other
for not doing enough because we're both
maxed out. How much of that is
happening?
>> She's actually incredibly
supportive.
>> Awesome.
>> I believe I'm the bottleneck.
>> Great.
>> Great. Yeah. Okay, I understand. So
what's the question?
>> The question is
how how can I
how can I develop this emotional
fluidity that I've heard you talk about.
I don't I don't really know exactly
where to begin. I know that being here
and following work is
>> great. Do me a favor and just say 10
times in a row in an angry voice, uh,
and I want you to think of your two and
a half-year-old. It's going to be
[__] silly, but I want you to think
of your two and a half-year-old and I
want you to say, "You're not the [__]
boss of me."
And I want you to do that 10 times.
>> Up here.
>> Say again.
>> I'm just conjuring her up in my Okay.
Great.
>> What's the What's her name? May.
>> May. Great. May, you're not the boss of
me. Just say her name. Yeah.
>> May, you're not the boss of me.
May, you're not the boss of me.
You're not the boss of me. May,
you're not the boss of me.
you're not the boss of me. May, you're
not the boss of me.
>> Great. What's happening? And you're
saying,
just noticed a lot of smile. thinking
about doing a lot of smile right
afterwards.
>> She
There's a little bit of of, you know,
I'm in touch with the silliness because
she's such a joy to be around really.
>> Yeah.
>> She could be much more challenging, but
she's not.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
Yeah. I I think I That's mostly it. I
feel I feel silly like I'm tense for no
reason around her.
>> Great. I'm going to do the other one
now. We're going to go the other way. I
I would give up everything for you, May
10 times.
May I would give up everything for you.
I'd give up everything for you. May
I give up everything for you?
Let it break your heart. Let it break
your heart. You don't have to be strong
around this.
Who would you be if you gave up
everything for me?
Your identity, all the space you think
you need
out of a deep want to. Not because you
had to, but because
that's just the kind of father you are.
Who would you be when she's 18?
>> Yes.
>> I had to guess
this this heartbreak. You just allow
this heartbreak the whole time.
the deep tissue massage that is raising
a parent. You just keep on surrendering.
You just keep on letting it break your
heart.
Rip your ego out of you day after day
after day.
I want that.
>> Where would you be
18 years from now?
I almost don't know if it if it matters.
I just feel like that would be
>> Yeah.
>> Whatever that is.
>> Yes, that's right.
So, you want emotional fluidity, but you
you just show me you have it.
The anger that should be there obviously
is there. Jesus [__] Christ. I don't
even get my own [__] bed. I'm not
sleeping. What the [__]
Jesus Christ. Like, can you really say
no 563 [__] times a day? Apparently
May can.
>> Yeah, you're stretching the limits. What
I thought was possible.
>> Yeah, she's going to break you open.
And all the sadness of knowing that you
would do it again. You're about to do it
again.
This is the gift of parenting. You have
all the fluidity there.
You just have to let it come out of your
mouth
instead of protecting yourself from it.
Yeah, that's
all all of your words on um on feeling
your feelings and just and not resisting
that being the thing that requires less
effort.
>> Yes.
>> That makes the challenge of of parenting
and and seeing number two coming down
the track just so much more easeful.
>> Yeah.
Trying to feel your feelings is as much
of a resistance to feeling your feelings
as trying not to,
>> right?
>> Just express it. It's really easy. And
cuz you have that Martin guitar behind
you. There is a song called Days. D A I
S. And it's by Mountain something. Can't
remember the name of it, but it's D A I
S. And it's short for Daisy, which Daisy
May. It's kind of perfect. Anyways,
it'll break your heart. It's about a a a
young dad singing to his three-year-old.
>> Oh, awesome.
>> Yeah. Yeah,
>> I'll definitely check that.
>> Pleasure.
>> Thanks so much, Joe.
>> If you enjoyed this coaching session and
you want to experience it live, just go
here or click the link below. I look
forward to seeing you there.